📖 Docs cluster controller (#5611)
kubernetes-sigs/cluster-api: docs/book/src/developer/architecture/controllers/cluster.md

The Cluster controller's main responsibilities are:

> * Setting an OwnerReference on the infrastructure object referenced in `cluster.cpec.infrastructureRef`.
> * Setting an OwnerReference on the control plane object referenced in `cluster.spec.controlPlaneRef`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Setting an OwnerReference on the infrastructure object referenced in `Cluster.spec.infrastructureRef`.
* Setting an OwnerReference on the control plane object referenced in `Cluster.spec.controlPlaneRef`.
```
Sorry for nitpicking, typo in spec and I would keep the kind upper case

The Cluster controller's main responsibilities are:

* Setting an OwnerReference on the infrastructure object referenced in `Cluster.Spec.InfrastructureRef`.

> * Setting an OwnerReference on the control plane object referenced in `Cluster.Spec.ControlPlaneRef`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Setting an OwnerReference on the controlPlane object referenced in `Cluster.Spec.ControlPlaneRef`.
```
nits - these names are better aligning with the way the structs are named (+/- capitaliztion) to prevent any confusion.

Reviewer: I would probably use:
```suggestion
* Setting an OwnerReference on the ControlPlane object referenced in `Cluster.spec.controlPlaneRef`.
```
(changed the path, not sure if we have any consistency in the docs regarding "control plane object" vs "ControlPlane object")

Author: It seems It's referred across this file and also in control-plane.md as "control plane" so I'd rather keep it and consider renaming everywhere in a different PR.

Reviewer 2: That's fine by me - control plane is easy to understand written as plain English. For InfrastructureCluster and others though it tends to be clearer to make the fact it's a type very explicit.

Reviewer: @enxebre WDYT about correcting the JSON path? `Cluster.Spec.ControlPlaneRef` => `Cluster.spec.controlPlaneRef`
(I don't insist on it)

Author: I had missed it, done! updated the existing one a the one this is introducing.

* Cleanup of all owned objects so that nothing is dangling after deletion.

> * Keeping the Cluster's status in sync with the infrastructure Cluster's status.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Keeping the Cluster's status in sync with the infrastructureCluster's status.
```
nit

## Contracts

> ### Relationship to other Cluster API types

Reviewer 3: What are you trying to surface, and this is super useful, but I'm wondering if this is there right place to do it given that here we are talking about the Cluster controller, while those informations most probably are important when trying to understand the InfrastructureCluster controller (down in this page) and the control plane controller (which is documented on another page).

What about adding a "Relationship with other controllers" paragraph under those, so we split control plane and infrastructure?

Author: I was trying to have an analogous to https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/cluster-api/blob/main/docs/book/src/developer/architecture/controllers/control-plane.md#relationship-to-other-cluster-api-types.
The way the Cluster CR coordinates with infraCluster and controlPlane and its dependencies are not particularly intuitive for people with little context, so I thought it'd be useful to have them clarified in one single place.

>What about adding a "Relationship with other controllers" paragraph under those, so we split control plane and infrastructure?

you mean having two sections one here another one under control-plane.md? sgtm though I think having this to be read as above in a single place somewhere it'd be illustrative for new joiners to understand how all pieces play together.

Reviewer 3: Ok, I understand the value of providing an overall documentation of Cluster controller interactions, but my concern is that the main consumers of this documentation are providers developers, and we are not covering their perspective given they start from control plane or infrastructure cluster docs.

What about:
- in this paragraph (or better immediately under Contracts without a sub title) just state that the Cluster controller interacts with InfrastructureCluster and the control plane controller, linking the corresponding paragraphs in the the two controllers for details.
- in the corresponding paragraphs for InfrastructureCluster and the control plane controller, provide details of the interactions each controller has with the Cluster/Controller; this will allow to extend those details e.g. by adding interaction between control plane and MHC etc. etc. thus providing a single point where the providers developers can find relevant info for each controller type

Reviewer 3: Adding a little bit more context, also CABPK and probably other controllers interact with the Cluster for ownership/infrastructure ready etc. etc. and I'm a little bit of conflating all those infos in a single paragraph; this is another reason for moving details where their are consumed.

Author: ok, updated to complement both Infrastructure Provider and Control Plane Provider sections.
PTAL.

The cluster controller will set an OwnerReference on the infraCluster and controlPlane CRs. Which implementations will normally exit reconciliation until they see the owner reference.

An infraCluster implementation is expected to enventually have its `spec.controlPlaneEndpoint` set by the user/controller.

The Cluster controller bubbles up `spec.controlPlaneEndpoint` and `status.infrastructureReady` from the infraCluster.

> Kubeadm control plane implementation will exit reconciliation until it sees `cluster.spec.controlPlaneEndpoint` populated.

Reviewer 3: Let's keep this generic and speak about control plane controller instead of KCP

baked in. Once that infrastructure is provisioned and ready to be used the AWSMachine reconciler takes over and
provisions EC2 instances that will become a Kubernetes cluster through some bootstrap mechanism.

> The cluster controller will set an OwnerReference on the infraCluster. This controller should normally exit reconciliation until it sees the owner reference.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The cluster controller will set an OwnerReference on the infrastructureCluster. This controller should normally take no action during reconciliation until it sees the ownerReference.
```

> The cluster controller will set an OwnerReference on the infrastructureCluster. This controller should normally take no action during reconciliation until it sees the ownerReference.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The cluster controller will set an OwnerReference on the infrastructureCluster. This controller should normally take no action during reconciliation until it sees the OwnerReference.
```

> An infraCluster controller is expected to eventually have its `spec.controlPlaneEndpoint` set by the user/controller.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An infrastructureCluster controller is expected to eventually have its `spec.controlPlaneEndpoint` set by the user/controller.
```

> The Cluster controller bubbles up `spec.controlPlaneEndpoint` and `status.ready` into `status.infrastructureReady` from the infraCluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Cluster controller bubbles up `spec.controlPlaneEndpoint` and `status.ready` into `status.infrastructureReady` from the infrastructureCluster.
```
